# The Feed 2025-01-14

- **Abusing AWS Native Services: Ransomware Encrypting S3 Buckets with SSE-C**: A new ransomware campaign called *Codefinger* is targeting Amazon S3 buckets using Server-Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C) to encrypt data and demanding ransom payments for decryption keys.
Original Link: https://www.halcyon.ai/blog/abusing-aws-native-services-ransomware-encrypting-s3-buckets-with-sse-c

- **Analyzing CVE-2024-44243, a macOS System Integrity Protection bypass through kernel extensions | Microsoft Security Blog**: A macOS vulnerability, CVE-2024-44243, allowed attackers to bypass System Integrity Protection (SIP) by loading third-party kernel extensions.
Original Link: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2025/01/13/analyzing-cve-2024-44243-a-macos-system-integrity-protection-bypass-through-kernel-extensions/

- **Double-Tap Campaign: Russia-nexus APT possibly related to APT28 conducts cyber espionage on Central Asia and Kazakhstan diplomatic relations**: A cyber espionage campaign, possibly conducted by Russia-nexus intrusion set UAC-0063, targeted Central Asian countries using weaponized documents likely stolen from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Original Link: https://blog.sekoia.io/double-tap-campaign-russia-nexus-apt-possibly-related-to-apt28-conducts-cyber-espionage-on-central-asia-and-kazakhstan-diplomatic-relations/

- **Triaging Triada: Understanding an Advanced Mobile Trojan and How it Targets Communication and Banking Applications**: Agent-based and agentless cloud security approaches can be combined to achieve comprehensive security coverage. 
Original Link: https://darktrace.com/blog/triaging-triada-understanding-an-advanced-mobile-trojan-and-how-it-targets-communication-and-banking-applications

- **Wiz Research Identifies Exploitation in the Wild of Aviatrix Controller RCE (CVE-2024-50603) | Wiz Blog**: Exploitation of a critical code execution vulnerability, CVE-2024-50603, in the Aviatrix Controller has been observed, leading to cryptojacking and backdoor deployment. 
Original Link: https://www.wiz.io/blog/wiz-research-identifies-exploitation-in-the-wild-of-aviatrix-cve-2024-50603 
## Abusing AWS Native Services: Ransomware Encrypting S3 Buckets with SSE-C
### Summary
**A new ransomware campaign dubbed *Codefinger* is targeting Amazon S3 buckets by abusing Server-Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C).** The attackers obtain compromised AWS keys with read and write permissions to S3 buckets. They leverage these keys to encrypt the data in the S3 buckets using SSE-C with a unique AES-256 encryption key that they generate and store locally.  The attacker then sets a lifecycle policy on the affected files to be deleted within seven days and leaves a ransom note in each affected directory. AWS logs only an HMAC of the encryption key used, which is not enough to recover the data.
### Technical Details
The attacker utilizes compromised AWS keys to perform the following actions: 
-  Use the keys to locate and access S3 buckets.
-  Generate a unique AES-256 encryption key and store it locally.
-  Encrypt files in S3 buckets using SSE-C. 
-  Set a lifecycle policy to delete the encrypted data after seven days. 
-  Leave a ransom note that contains their bitcoin address and a client ID associated with the encrypted data. 
### Recommendations
- Restrict SSE-C usage through the use of IAM policies.
- Monitor and audit AWS keys and their permissions.
- Disable unused keys and rotate active keys frequently.
- Enable detailed logging for S3 operations.
- Engage AWS support for tailored security measures.
- Implement the principle of least privilege.
- Use IAM Roles to enable applications to securely make signed API requests using short-term credentials.
- Use Roles Anywhere for compute nodes outside the AWS cloud to make authenticated calls without long-term AWS credentials.
- Utilize Identity Center for developer workstations to obtain short-term credentials backed by longer-term user identities protected by MFA tokens.
- Protect non-AWS credentials with AWS Secrets Manager.
### Hunting Methods
- Monitor for unusual S3 operations, such as bulk encryption or lifecycle policy changes.
### IOC
\
**Original Link:** https://www.halcyon.ai/blog/abusing-aws-native-services-ransomware-encrypting-s3-buckets-with-sse-c

## Analyzing CVE-2024-44243, a macOS System Integrity Protection bypass through kernel extensions | Microsoft Security Blog
### Summary
**This article details how a vulnerability (CVE-2024-44243) in macOS could be exploited to bypass System Integrity Protection (SIP) by loading third-party kernel extensions.** Attackers could exploit a flaw in the Storage Kit daemon (*storagekitd*) to load and execute arbitrary code. The *storagekitd* daemon, which handles disk management, could be tricked into executing malicious code disguised as file system utilities. This bypass could lead to the installation of rootkits, persistent malware, and bypasses of Transparency, Consent, and Control (TCC), significantly compromising system security.
### Technical Details
**The vulnerability leverages the way macOS handles user-space file systems (UserFS).** The Disk Arbitration daemon (*diskarbitrationd*) interacts with UserFS, which are often implemented as bundles (.fs). These bundles contain executable files and arguments used for mounting, repairing, and probing file systems. An attacker can create a malicious file system bundle and place it in the */Library/Filesystems* directory. By triggering a disk operation (e.g., disk repair) on this malicious file system, they can force *storagekitd* to execute the malicious code within the bundle, thereby bypassing SIP. 
### Recommendations
- **Update macOS systems to patch CVE-2024-44243.**
- **Monitor for anomalous child processes of specially entitled processes, particularly those related to disk management.**
- **Implement security solutions capable of detecting and alerting on the execution of unauthorized kernel extensions and anomalous behavior from processes with special entitlements.** 
### Hunting Methods
Use advanced hunting query language to look for all child processes of the  *storagekitd* daemon:
```
DeviceProcessEvents  
| where InitiatingProcessFileName == "storagekitd"      
    and FolderPath !startswith "/System"      
    and FolderPath !startswith "/sbin"      
    and FolderPath !startswith "/bin"      
    and FolderPath !startswith "/usr"  
| summarize by ProcessCommandLine

```

**Original Link:** https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2025/01/13/analyzing-cve-2024-44243-a-macos-system-integrity-protection-bypass-through-kernel-extensions/ 

## Double-Tap Campaign: Russia-nexus APT possibly related to APT28 conducts cyber espionage on Central Asia and Kazakhstan diplomatic relations
### Summary
**Sekoia investigated a cyber espionage campaign using weaponized Microsoft Office documents containing a unique, previously unknown malicious code. The documents were likely exfiltrated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and used to target diplomatic-related entities in Central Asia**. The campaign, dubbed *Double-Tap*, involved the use of macros to deliver the **HATVIBE** backdoor, which downloads and executes the **CHERRYSPY** backdoor. The infection chain shares similarities with previous campaigns attributed to **Zebrocy**, an alleged subgroup of **APT28**. The targets and the information contained in the documents suggest that the objective of the campaign is to collect strategic intelligence on Kazakhstan’s relations with Western and Central Asian countries to maintain Russia's influence in the region. The campaign was still ongoing in November 2024.  

### Technical Details
The *Double-Tap* infection chain utilizes weaponized Microsoft Office documents with malicious macros.  Once the document is opened, the user is prompted to enable macros. Upon execution, the macro performs a series of actions designed to bypass security and deliver the payload. 
\
*   It modifies the **HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Office\[VERSION]\Word\Security\AccessVBOM** registry key, downgrading security settings and allowing subsequent macros to execute without user interaction.
*   It unprotects the document using a hardcoded password and removes shapes used for social engineering to trick the user into enabling macros.
*   It creates a second blank document in the **C:\Users\[USER]\AppData\Local\Temp** directory. The content of this document, including a new malicious macro, is populated from variables stored in the settings.xml file of the initial document.
*   The second malicious document is then launched in a hidden instance of Microsoft Word, and its macro executes silently due to the previously altered registry key.
\
**The macro in the second document retrieves malicious VBA code from its settings.xml file and executes two methods:**

*   It extracts the content of an HTA file, which contains the **HATVIBE** backdoor, and saves it to **C:\Users\[USER]\AppData\Local\Settings\locale** (without an extension).
*   It creates a scheduled task named "Settings\ServiceDispatch" using **RegisterTaskDefinition**, designed to execute the HTA file containing **HATVIBE** every four minutes by launching **mshta.exe**.

**The HATVIBE backdoor functions as follows:**

*   It receives VBS modules for execution from a remote C2 server.
*   It decrypts each received module using a simple XOR algorithm.
*   It injects the decrypted module between  `<script>` tags in the HTA file's HTML body, leading to automatic execution.
*   The modules operate in a chained manner, with each module likely originating from different C2 endpoints (e.g., "/setup.php", "/local.php", "/upset.php").
*   **HATVIBE** is known to download and execute a more complex Python backdoor called **CHERRYSPY**, which was not observed in this analysis.

### Recommendations
The sources don't provide explicit recommendations, but they do describe the tactics and techniques used in the attack. 
### Hunting methods
The article provides several YARA rules to detect different components and stages of the *Double-Tap* attack, such as:

*   **Detecting obfuscated HATVIBE HTA files** (rules apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_loader\_obfuscated\_VBA and apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_loader\_deobfuscated\_VBA).
*   **Identifying suspected APT28 document settings.xml files** (rule apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_loader\_malicious\_xml\_content1).
*   **Detecting malicious macros used in Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the attack** (rules apt\_UAC0063\_Stage\_1\_Malicious\_Macro\_compiled, apt\_UAC0063\_Stage\_1\_Malicious\_Macro\_clear, and apt\_UAC0063\_Stage\_2\_Malicious\_Macro\_clear).
*   **Identifying settings.xml files containing a VBE encoded in hexadecimal** (rule apt\_UAC0063\_Settings\_xml\_containing\_VBE).
*   **Detecting the HATVIBE header in VBE format** (rule apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_vbe).
*   **Identifying decoded versions of HATVIBE VBE and modules** (rules apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_decoded and apt\_UAC0063\_HATVIBE\_module\_decoded).

The article provides Sigma rules for detecting two key aspects of the attack:

1.  **Registry Key Modification for Persistent Macro Execution:**
    This rule focuses on the modification of the "AccessVBOM" registry key, which attackers commonly use to enable macros to run without user prompts. The rule checks for the presence of this key with a specific value ("DWORD (0x00000001)") and also looks for command-line executions related to adding the "AccessVBOM" or "VbaWarnings" keys.

    ```sigma
    detection:
      registry:
        registry.value:
          - AccessVBOM
          - VbaWarnings
        registry.data.strings: 'DWORD (0x00000001)'
      cmdline_vbom:
        process.command_line|contains|all:
          - 'reg'
          - 'add'
          - '\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Office\'
          - 'AccessVBOM'
      cmdline_warning:
        process.command_line|contains|all:
          - 'reg'
          - 'add'
          - '\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Office\'
          - 'VbaWarnings'
      condition: registry or 1 of cmdline_*
    ```

2.  **Execution of "mshta.exe" from a Scheduled Task:**
    This rule targets the unusual execution of "mshta.exe" (Microsoft HTML Application Host) by a scheduled task, which can be indicative of malicious activity. It specifically checks for "mshta.exe" processes whose parent is "svchost.exe" with specific command-line arguments related to scheduled tasks ("-k netsvcs -p -s Schedule").

    ```sigma
    detection:
      selection:
        process.name: mshta.exe
        process.command_line: '*'
        process.parent.name: svchost.exe
        process.parent.command_line|contains|all:
           - "-k"
           - "netsvcs"
           - "-p"
           - "-s"
           - "Schedule"
      condition: selection
    ```

    Additionally, a second Sigma rule can be used to detect network connections initiated by "mshta.exe," which further strengthens the detection capabilities:

    ```sigma
    detection:
      selection:
        process.name: mshta.exe
        process.command_line: '*'
        event.type: connection
      condition: selection
    ```

### IOC
**IPs:**
\
38.180.207[.]137 
\
38.180.206[.]61 
\
2.58.15[.]158
\
213.159.79[.]56
\
**Domains:**
\
background-services[.]net
\
lookup[.]ink
\
download-resourses[.]info
\
**File Hashes:**
\
06e4084e2d043f216c0bc7931781ce3e1cea4eca1b6092c0e34b01a89e2a6dea
\
3b87dc25a11b6268019d5eae49a6b93271dfdc262f2607cfefa35d196f724997
\
47092548660d5200ea368aacbfe03435c88b6674b0975bb87a124736052bd7c3
\
6edf3d03bd38c800d5d1e297d59c2496968202358f4be47e1f07e57a52485e0c
\
c61e9326421d05d62cafd6c04041ab1a8f57c0a21d424b9ca04b6a1fc275af19
\
e3a0be8852d77771dc3f44f3e9a051e7fe56547b569aad5a178ae44ef31713b9
\
e440bad60823642e8976528bd450364ce2542d15a69778ff20996eb107158b8d
\
efc99e6f3cdd10313c52a8ad099424e3f39ab85b75375b8db82717d61c7f0118
\
fd78051817b5e2375c92d14588f9a4ba1adc92cc1564e55e6150ae350ed6c889
\
**Original link:** https://blog.sekoia.io/double-tap-campaign-russia-nexus-apt-possibly-related-to-apt28-conducts-cyber-espionage-on-central-asia-and-kazakhstan-diplomatic-relations/

## Triaging Triada: Understanding an Advanced Mobile Trojan and How it Targets Communication and Banking Applications

### Summary
The article discusses the advantages and challenges of agent-based and agentless cloud security and proposes a combined approach that utilizes both. Agent-based solutions are favored for their in-depth monitoring and real-time protection capabilities, particularly suitable for environments requiring tight security controls. Agentless solutions offer broader visibility, scalability, and minimal performance impact, making them ideal for dynamic cloud environments. The combined approach offers comprehensive coverage, reduces overhead and enhances scalability, allowing organizations to tailor their security strategies based on the specific needs and risk profiles of different assets and environments. This strategy enables holistic security posture, targeted protection where needed, and maximized security efficacy. The article further details use cases for a combined approach, highlighting how agent-based security excels in deep monitoring and real-time protection of critical infrastructure, while agentless solutions provide broad visibility and rapid environmental assessment.

### Technical Details
The article does not detail specific techniques or tactics, but rather different approaches to cloud security:

*   **Agent-based cloud security** involves deploying software agents on each device, enabling real-time threat detection and response, deep visibility into system behavior, and comprehensive coverage across hybrid environments.
*   **Agentless cloud security** utilizes cloud infrastructure and APIs to perform security checks, offering scalability, ease of deployment, reduced system overhead, and broad visibility via cloud provider APIs. 
*   **A combined approach** leverages both methods. Agent-based solutions are used for deep monitoring and real-time protection of critical systems while agentless solutions provide broader visibility and easier scalability for dynamic cloud assets.

### Recommendations
The article does not provide explicit technical recommendations, but instead advocates for a combined approach to cloud security that leverages the strengths of both agent-based and agentless solutions. The article highlights the importance of:

*   Understanding the specific security requirements of different assets and environments.
*   Deploying agent-based solutions for critical systems and sensitive workloads that require real-time protection and in-depth monitoring.
*   Utilizing agentless solutions for broader visibility, scalability, and rapid deployment across dynamic cloud environments.
*   Tailoring security strategies to match the risk profile and functional requirements of different parts of the cloud environment.


**Original link:** https://darktrace.com/blog/triaging-triada-understanding-an-advanced-mobile-trojan-and-how-it-targets-communication-and-banking-applications 


## Wiz Research Identifies Exploitation in the Wild of Aviatrix Controller RCE (CVE-2024-50603)
### Summary
This article details the exploitation of a critical remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability (CVE-2024-50603, CVSS 10.0) in **Aviatrix Controller**, impacting versions before 7.1.4191 and 7.2.x before 7.2.4996.  The vulnerability arises from improper sanitization of user input in the `list_flightpath_destination_instances` and `flightpath_connection_test` API endpoints.  This allows unauthenticated attackers to execute arbitrary commands on vulnerable systems.  Wiz Research observed exploitation in the wild leading to **cryptojacking using XMRig** and the **deployment of Sliver backdoors**.  This vulnerability is particularly concerning due to the potential for privilege escalation in AWS environments, where Aviatrix Controller often has lateral movement paths to administrative cloud control plane permissions.

### Technical Details
*   **Initial Access:** Exploiting CVE-2024-50603 via the `list_flightpath_destination_instances` and `flightpath_connection_test` API endpoints with injected commands.
*   **Execution:** Successful exploitation allows the execution of arbitrary commands on the vulnerable Aviatrix Controller.
*   **Persistence:** Sliver backdoors deployed for persistence.
*   **Defense Evasion:** Attackers may exploit the vulnerability to enumerate cloud permissions and pivot to other systems or exfiltrate data.
*   **Discovery:** Publicly available proof-of-concept exploit code and Nuclei templates aid in exploitation.
*   **Lateral Movement:** In AWS environments, Aviatrix Controller is often granted high IAM privileges and may have lateral movement paths to administrative cloud control plane permissions.

### Recommendations
*   **Upgrade Aviatrix Controller** to patched versions 7.1.4191 or 7.2.4996.
*   **Implement network restrictions** to prevent public access to Aviatrix Controller.
*   **Conduct forensic investigation** on potentially compromised devices.
*   **Proactively hunt** for evidence of lateral movement attempts to the cloud control plane.

### Hunting methods
*   **Review threat pages** for threats associated with compute resources hosting Aviatrix Controller.
*   **Use the Security Graph** to search for malware findings on compute resources hosting Aviatrix technologies.
*   **Utilize the Cloud Events Explorer** to search for:
    *   Network-based IOCs in IP address fields. 
    *   Cloud provider security alerts where the principal is the compute resource hosting Aviatrix Controller.
    *   AWS CloudTrail events where the “Acting As” field is set to one of the default Aviatrix roles (aviatrix-role-ec2 or aviatrix-role-app), and the principal IP address hasn't been previously observed, or is performing abnormal API calls.
    *   Abnormal DNS requests or outgoing IP connections from Aviatrix Controller devices in network logs.

### IOC
**IP Addresses**\
91.193.19[.]109:13333 - Sliver C2 Server IP address\
107.172.43[.]186:3939 - Cryptocurrency mining pool IP address

**File Hashes (SHA1)**\
1ce0c293f2042b677cd55a393913ec052eded4b9 - XMRig\
68d88d1918676c87dcd39c7581c3910a9eb94882 - XMRig\
c4f63a3a6cb6b8aae133bd4c5ac6f2fc9020c349 - XMRig\
c63f646edfddb4232afa5618e3fac4eee1b4b115 - XMRig\
e10e750115bf2ae29a8ce8f9fa14e09e66534a15 - Sliver\
41d589a077038048c4b120494719c905e71485ba - Sliver

**File Paths**\
/tmp/systemd-private-[0-9a-f]{32}-apache2.service-[0-9a-zA-Z]{6}/tmp/.system\_logs/momika233-2024-04-29-xmrig.zip - XMRig\
/tmp/systemd-private-[0-9a-f]{32}-apache2.service-[0-9a-zA-Z]{6}/tmp/moneroocean/xmrig - XMRig\
/tmp/systemd-private-[0-9a-f]{32}-apache2.service-[0-9a-zA-Z]{6}/tmp/.uid/udiskssd - XMRig\
/tmp/systemd-private-[0-9a-f]{32}-apache2.service-[0-9a-zA-Z]{6}/tmp/config - Sliver 

**Original link:** https://www.wiz.io/blog/wiz-research-identifies-exploitation-in-the-wild-of-aviatrix-cve-2024-50603